The President:
In the end, it's our ideals, our
values, that built America --
values that allowed us to forge
a nation made up of immigrants
from every corner of the globe;
values that drive our citizens still.
Every day, Americans meet
their responsibilities to their
families and their employers.
Time and again, they lend a hand
to their neighbors and give back
to their country.
They take pride in their labor,
and are generous in spirit.
These aren't Republican values
or Democratic values that
they're living by; business
values or labor values.
They're American values.
Unfortunately, too many of our
citizens have lost faith that
our biggest institutions --
our corporations, our media,
and yes, our government --
still reflect these same values.
Each of these institutions are
full of honorable men and women
doing important work that
helps our country prosper.
But each time a CEO rewards
himself for failure,
or a banker puts the rest of
us at risk for his own selfish
gain, people's doubts grow.
Each time lobbyists game the
system or politicians tear each
other down instead of lifting
this country up, we lose faith.
The more that TV pundits
reduce serious debates to silly
arguments, big issues into sound
bites, our citizens turn away.
No wonder there's so
much cynicism out there.
much disappointment.
I campaigned on the
promise of change --
change we can believe
in, the slogan went.
And right now, I know there are
many Americans who aren't sure
if they still believe
we can change --
or that I can deliver.
But remember this -- I never suggested that change would be
easy, or that I
could do it alone.
Democracy in a nation of 300
million people can be noisy and
messy and complicated.
And when you try to do big
things and make big changes,
it stirs passions
and controversy.
That's just how it is.
Those of us in public office
can respond to this reality by
playing it safe and avoid
telling hard truths and pointing fingers.
We can do what's necessary to
keep our poll numbers high,
and get through the next
election instead of doing what's
best for the next generation.
But I also know this: if people
had made that decision 50 years
ago or 100 years ago
or 200 years ago,
we wouldn't be here tonight.
The only reason we are here is
because generations of Americans
were unafraid to
do what was hard;
to do what was needed even
when success was uncertain;
to do what it took to keep the
dream of this nation alive for
their children and
their grandchildren.
Now, our administration has had
some political setbacks this
year, and some of
them were deserved.
But I wake up every day knowing
that they are nothing compared
to the setbacks that families
all across this country have
faced this year.
And what keeps me going --
what keeps me fighting --
is that despite
all these setbacks,
that spirit of determination
and optimism --
that fundamental decency that
has always been at the core of
the American people
-- that lives on.